HTTP Keep Alive

  Http Keep-Alive seems to be massively misunderstood. Here's a short description of how it works, 
  under both 1.0 and 1.1.

  Http operates on what is called a request-response paradigm. This means that a _client_ generates 
  a request for information, and passes it to the server, which answers it. In the original 
  implementation of HTTP, each request created a new socket connection to the server, sent the request, 
  then read from that connection to get the response.

  This approach had one big advantage - it was simple. Simple to describe, simple to understand, and 
  simple to code. It also had one big disadvantage - it was slow. So, keep-alive connections were 
  invented for HTTP.

HTTP/1.0

  Under HTTP 1.0, there is no official specification for how keepalive operates. It was, in essence, 
  tacked on to an existing protocol. If the browser supports keep-alive, it adds an additional header 
  to the request:

  Connection: Keep-Alive

  Then, when the server receives this request and generates a response, it also adds a header to the 
  response:

  Connection: Keep-Alive

  Following this, the connection is NOT dropped, but is instead kept open. When the client sends another 
  request, it uses the same connection. This will continue until either the client or the server decides 
  that the conversation is over, and one of them drops the connection.

HTTP/1.1

  Under HTTP 1.1, the official keepalive method is different. All connections are kept alive, unless 
  stated otherwise with the following header:

  Connection: close

  The Connection: Keep-Alive header no longer has any meaning because of this.

  Additionally, an optional Keep-Alive: header is described, but is so underspecified as to be meaningless. 
  Avoid it.

Not reliable

  HTTP is a stateless protocol - this means that every request is independent of every other. Keep alive 
  doesn’t change that. Additionally, there is no guarantee that the client or the server will keep the 
  connection open. Even in 1.1, all that is promised is that you will probably get a notice that the 
  connection is being closed. So keepalive is something you should not write your application to rely upon.

KeepAlive and POST

  The HTTP 1.1 spec states that following the body of a POST, there are to be no additional characters. It 
  also states that "certain" browsers may not follow this spec, putting a CRLF after the body of the POST. 
  Mmm-hmm. As near as I can tell, most browsers follow a POSTed body with a CRLF. There are two ways of 
  dealing with this: Disallow keepalive in the context of a POST request, or ignore CRLF on a line by itself. 
  Most servers deal with this in the latter way, but there's no way to know how a server will handle it 
  without testing.
